Effective presentation of information

There is no doubt that any information should be able to present. Even the most brilliant idea will not be appreciated by your management if you mumble it under your breath or get stuck in insignificant details, because, as you know, a diamond becomes a sparkling diamond after careful cutting. Hence the conclusion: any information that you want to submit to your boss (or colleagues), be it a report on the work done, a presentation or your creative ideas, should be processed, not "raw", only then it will be perceived accordingly. Of course, there are situations when some information has to be given out spontaneously, but in most cases you have time, albeit a little, to prepare your speech. What is the key to success when submitting any information?

First, you must master your material perfectly. It would seem that this is a truism, but why then do many people neglect it? When you don't quite know what exactly you're going to talk about, you can get lost, confused, and you can hardly think of anything worse than that. To prevent this from happening to you, always write the text of your intended speech. Yes, it is the speeches, because the presentation of information, in fact, is, especially at first, an almost continuous monologue. By writing down your thoughts on paper, you avoid the danger of missing something. In addition, recording helps to structure your ideas. After you have written the text of the speech for yourself, highlight the main and secondary points in it. Do not forget that each thesis (i.e. the key idea) must be followed by one or more arguments (i.e. evidence of the idea you have stated). Distribute the order in which you will present your information. At the same time, I advise you to attribute the most important information to the beginning of the speech. Why, you may ask. This is explained by the so-called law of progressive impatience of listeners. Its essence is as follows: the more a person talks, the less they listen to him. The first 10 minutes of the speech are perceived by listeners as 10 minutes, the second as 20 minutes, and the third as 30 minutes in general! Therefore, the optimal time for a speech is about ten minutes. If your speech is designed for a longer amount of time, put all the important provisions at the beginning.

The information that you present should be clear and clear to the listeners. Avoid inaccuracies, vague formulations (by the way, when you fix the text of the speech on paper, this problem disappears by itself). Not to mention the fact that your information will not be perceived, you will simply steal precious time from yourself and your listeners. In addition, a person who does not really know what he means, causes severe irritation.

One of the principles of effective presentation of information is visibility (for example, the presentation is generally based on it). However, you have the opportunity to use this wonderful principle in other cases, for example, when you are preparing a report on the work done. The secret is simple: always use concrete figures and facts. For example, instead of saying "Our economic indicators have improved recently," say "Over the last (year, month, quarter), our economic indicators in such and such areas have increased by so many percent." The first phrase, in fact, says nothing, while the second gives exhaustive information. It is clear that for this you will have to work hard, collect and analyze various figures and facts, however, the effect of such a speech will be incomparably higher than from an abstract "talker".

It is very important to use specific arguments if you want to push your ideas, for example, about improving working methods. Your conclusions should have a solid foundation, guesses and assumptions based on who knows what are not suitable here. In order for your manager to believe in the benefit of your ideas for the organization, show him this benefit in percentages and facts. By the way, in this situation it is also quite acceptable to use visual diagrams and drawings.

So, you have carefully thought out and put on paper the text of your intended speech, and this is 30% success. The remaining 70% is how exactly you present the information orally. What points should be taken into account here?

It's no secret that it's impossible to impress listeners just by reading from a piece of paper. We were all taught to read in the first grade, but the ability to tell should be studied much longer. Don't be afraid, there's nothing complicated here, just follow a few tips. First: the memorization of the text is very close to elementary reading. You can memorize the text by heart, but imagine what would happen if you were asked a question during a speech. The answer is unequivocal: You'll just lose your mind. Therefore, the written text should be retold several times, only then you will feel confident. By the way, about confidence when speaking: You must speak without doubting the correctness of your words, otherwise you will not be able to convince anyone of anything. If you mumble to yourself or stumble, the whole effect will go down the drain.

The second rule: Your speech should not be monotonous, it bores you, and in particularly neglected cases it completely puts you to sleep. The performance, therefore, should be emotional. But do not forget at the same time that everything is good in moderation. Use appropriate gestures – it will be discussed in the chapter "Nonverbal communication".

If you have such an opportunity, choose the most successful time for your speech, because the perception of your words by listeners (and in our case, by the head) depends not only on how well the information will be presented, but also on the state of the latter. In other words, if your manager, for example, has a toothache or just a bad mood, it is hardly worth presenting your thoughts to him at this very moment. Choose another, more appropriate time. By the way, choosing the time to present your information, think about whether your boss has enough time to listen to you carefully? Information presented on the move, or even on the run, is at best only partially perceived, and mostly it is not perceived at all.

And a few practical tips on exactly how to present the text of the speech. What techniques should be used to present information most effectively?

First, always focus on important words and word combinations. You have already written the text of the speech, so it will be easy for you to find and highlight them. But even if your speech is spontaneous, because you did not have the time and opportunity for preliminary preparation, you will easily find the main words in each phrase. Highlight them with your voice: changing the timbre will make a person alert and listen to you especially carefully, which will ultimately improve the perception of your listener (or listeners).

But it is necessary to change not only the timbre of the voice, but also the tempo of speech. Changing the tempo will give your speech expressiveness and save it from monotony (we have already talked about the harm of this phenomenon). There is the following pattern here: the words that you consider the most significant in your speech should be pronounced more slowly compared to the others. So you will focus on them again.

Thirdly, be sure to pause before and after important thoughts or words. With this technique, you will attract the attention of listeners to them, because a pause in speech made before the presentation of a thought makes you concentrate. And the pause made after gives listeners the opportunity to think more carefully about what they have just heard. Thus, theses framed by pauses will be much better deposited in their memory and consciousness.

And finally, the last and, perhaps, the most important advice on this issue. In order for your speech to be successful, and the presentation of the information contained in it, respectively, to be effective, you need to put your soul into what you say. This idea in itself is not new, surely you have heard about it many times before reading these lines. Now ask yourself the question: do you always follow this truly golden principle? And what does it mean to invest your soul, you ask. Yes, at first glance this recommendation seems abstract and maybe even useless. But in fact, in addition to using practical techniques, it is necessary to present any information with enthusiasm, with faith with what you are talking about, to speak with feeling, and not automatically. This is not difficult to do, since the content of any speech is, first of all, your thoughts, your conclusions, even if you are presenting the point of view of another person or well-known, at first glance, facts. Speak with your soul, and the effect of the information you present will be equal to one hundred percent!
